docs/mkdocs/docs/quickstart.md, before:

Title: Quickstart
Authors: Nigel Bowden

# Quickstart Guide
<div style="float: right;">
![wiperf_logo](images/wiperf_logo.png)
</div>
Wiperf is a utility that can be installed on a [WLAN Pi](https://wlan-pi.github.io/wlanpi-documentation/) or a Raspberry Pi to act as a network probe that runs a series of  network performance tests. It is primarily intended to provide an indication of the end-user experience on a wireless network, but may also be used as an ethernet-connected probe.

Wiperf is a powerful solution, but it is not trivial to setup and configure. Here is a quickstart guide to outline the component parts and knowledge you'll need to get wiperf going.

__What it is:__ 

- an open source engineering tool that runs a set of network tests and reports in to a separate reporting tool (Splunk or Grafana) that is not part of the wiperf project. 
- Wiperf is *only* a probe that runs a series of network tests and makes data available to other tools.

__What it isn't:__ 

- An Enterprise quality/scale network monitoring tool
- A reporting tool
- A cheap way of providing Enterprise-wide UX monitoring

__Skills You'll Need:__ 
You will need to be comfortable with the following items to get wiperf going:

- Using SBC devices like the RPi and WLAN Pi (including burning images & getting on their CLI) 
- Basic Linux administration skills (including editing files on the CLI, running scripts, updating/adding packages)

__Building a Probe:__
You'll need to build the probe from scratch, which may include burning images on to an SD card, a variety of Linux operations such as adding new packages and performing administrative tasks such as setting the hostname, network configuration details and the timezone.

Once the basic probe is built, you will then download the wiperf code using an automated script and configure its operation using a CLI text editor.

__Reporting:__
As stated previously, wiperf __is not__ a reporting platform. It has been designed to send data to a reporting platform (that you build yourself, separately) such as Splunk or Grafana. 

Details are provided to "get you going" with the reporting platform, but these platforms are not part of this project and detailed customization of these platforms and supporting them is outside of the wiperf project. No support will be provided for these platforms besides the basic report templates that are provided on a best-efforts basis. 

Remember, wiperf is a UX network probe - analyzing the data it provides is your responsibility.

__Documentation:__
I have created a wide range of documentation to help you to get your wiperf probe going, together with the basics of setting up a suitable reporting platform. Please take time to read through this documentation before reaching out for support. 

I recommend that you start [here](operation.md) and work sequentially though the [documentation provided](operation.md).

Commit message:

Doc updates (#5)
* initial tidy-up of documentation set

* add visio diagrams

* remove splunk images no longer required.

* move from home page for consiseness

* move credits to own page

* initial commit

* provide info on changes in supported platforms

* update quickstart info for v2.5

* fix logo image filename

* treat Visio files as binary

* finish off quickstart doc

* add Visio files for documentation images

* update with new WLANPi graphic

* remove redundant file

* update name to reflect dc content

* update with new WLAN Pi icon

* updated file name

* fix links for updated file name

* tidy up

* update grafana port to 3000 (default)

* update image to use new WLAN Pi logo

* remove "Wlan Pi only" note

* update for new WLAN Pi-only package

* update with new WLAN Pi icon

docs/mkdocs/docs/quickstart.md, after:

Title: Quickstart
Authors: Nigel Bowden

# Quickstart Guide
![wiperf_logo](images/wiperf_logo.png){ align=right }
Getting up and going with Wiperf can be quite tricky if you aren't familiar with Linux and setting up a separate server to act as a data collection server. Therefore, starting with v2.5, a quickstart script is provided that:

- Configures the wireless interface of the WLAN Pi probe
- Applies a basic probe configuration to get you started with testing
- Installs InfluxDB and Grafana on to the WLAN Pi to provide an on-board reporting server
- Configures Grafana with a set of dashboard reports to start reporting on network health
- Switches the probe in to Wiperf mode to start collecting performance data

The script takes less than 5 minutes to get a fully functioning Wiperf probe up and running.

## Running the Quickstart Script
To run the quickstart script, power up your WLAN Pi and ensure it is connected to the Internet. If you have a switch port with Internet access, simply cable it to the Ethernet port of the WLAN Pi...DHCP will take care of the rest.

Before running the quickstart script, ensure that the WLAN Pi is in "classic" mode.

Next, SSH to the WLAN Pi and run the following commands:

```
cd /opt/wlanpi-wiperf/extras
sudo ./quick_start.sh
```

A CLI wizard will now walk you through the steps to configure the WLAN Pi and installed the required reporting software:

![Quickstart Wizard](images/wizard.jpg)

The wizard will walk you through the following processes:

 - Configuration of the wireless network connection to test your wireless network (note the security methods supported are WPA2 PSK & PEAP)
 - Installation of the Librespeed speedtest utility if you would like to use it in addition to the Ookla speedtest utility supported out of the box 
 - Installation of the InfluxDB and Grafana plus reporting dashboards on to the WLAN Pi to provide local reporting.

The wizard also provides the option to switch the WLAN Pi in to Wiperf mode so that you can start testing and reporting on your wireless network straight away.

Instructions for accessing the Grafana web UI to view the reports are provide on-screen at the end of the Grafana installation process.

## Further Documentation
This quickstart process is great to get you going quickly with Wiperf, but really only scratches the surface of what you can achieve with the utility. There is a comprehensive documentation that allows you to add your own custom network tests, build a centralised reporting server for multiple WLAN Pi probes and maybe even create your own custom reports.

I recommend that you start [here](operation.md) and work sequentially though the [documentation provided](operation.md) if you'd like to explore Wiperf in much more depth.
